Bengt/Governance Specs Refactor (#75)
anoma/namada-docs: packages/specs/pages/governance/on-chain.mdx

import { Steps } from 'nextra-theme-docs'

# On-chain governance

## Governance Address

All on-chain governance mechanisms are handled under a single address, referred to as the `GovernanceAddress`.
The `GovernanceAddress` is created during genesis, and handles the verification of submitted proposals, the tallying of votes, and the execution of proposals.
This address also stores all previous proposals under its address space.

Proposals are submitted through the client, and are verified by the `GovernanceAddress` before being added to the pending proposals list.

The structure of proposals is outlined [here](./proposal.md).

> The correct logic to handle these different types will be hardcoded in protocol. 

Author: ```suggestion
The correct logic to handle these different types is hardcoded in protocol. 
```

- The difference between `grace_epoch` and `voting_end` is of at least `min_proposal_grace_epochs`, a protocol parameter.
The reason for this constraint is explained below. 

#### Voting validation

Once a proposal has been accepted by the protocol as valid, it will be added to the pending proposals list, and will be available for voting.
The VP must also check that voting adheres to the following constraints:

- The voter is a delegator or a delegate (further constraints can be applied depending on the proposal type)
- Given that non-validating accounts can vote, validators may only vote during the initial 2/3 of the whole proposal duration (`voting_end` - `voting_start`)

Once a proposal has been created, nobody can modify any of its fields.

#### Execution of WASM code

The VP is also responsible for handling the execution of WASM code attached to a `DefaultProposal` proposal type.

Examples of such code execution could be:
- storage writes to change some protocol parameter
- storage writes to restore a slash

This means that corresponding VPs will also be invoked.

> It is possible to check the actual implementation [here](https://github.com/anoma/namada/blob/main/shared/src/ledger/governance/mod.rs#L69)

Author: Good point

> It is possible to check the actual implementation [here](https://github.com/anoma/namada/blob/main/shared/src/ledger/governance/mod.rs#L69)

Author: ```suggestion

```

The on-chain proposal transaction will have the following structure, where `author` address will be address of the account submitting the proposal, and hence the address which receives any deposited funds.

```rust
struct Proposal {
    id: u64,
    content: Vec<u8>,
    author: Address,
    r#type: ProposalType, // This is an enum, in which Wasm code is embedded for DefaultProposal
    votingStartEpoch: Epoch,
    votingEndEpoch: Epoch,
    graceEpoch: Epoch,
}
```

The optional proposal wasm code will be embedded inside the `ProposalType` enum variants to better perform validation through type checking.

## Vote transaction

Vote transactions have the following structure:

```rust
struct OnChainVote {
    id: u64,
    voter: Address,
    yay: ProposalVote,
}
```
where `ProposalVote` is an enum representing a `Yay` or `Nay` vote: the yay variant also contains the specific memo (if any) required for that proposal.

Storage writes for a vote transaction are described [here](./storage.md#votes).

If non-validating accounts are allowed to vote, delegates will be able to vote only for 2/3 of the total voting period, while delegators can vote until the end of the voting period. 

> If only validators are allowed to vote for the `ProposalType` in exam, they are allowed to vote for the entire voting window.

Author: Good point, I think I meant in question lmao

If a delegator votes differently to its delegate, the delegate's vote will be *overriden* 
(e.g. if a delegator has a voting power of 200 and votes opposite to the delegate, then 200 will be subtracted from the voting power of the involved delegate).

## Tallying votes

> At the beginning of each new epoch (and only then), in the `finalize_block` function, tallying will occur for all the proposals that have a `grace_epoch` matching the current epoch.

Author: No, the counting happens at grace epoch. I'll see if this can be made more clear

> At the beginning of each new epoch (and only then), in the `finalize_block` function, tallying will occur for all the proposals that have a `grace_epoch` matching the current epoch.

Author: Hopefully more clear now

The proposal has a positive outcome if the threshold specified by the `ProposalType` is reached. 
This means that enough `Yay` votes must have been collected: the threshold is relative to the total staked `NAM`.

> E.g if the threshold is $\frac{1}{2}$, then at least 50% of the total staked `NAM` must have voted `Yay` for the proposal to be accepted.

Author: That would probably be a more efficient way of checking

Tallying, is computed with the following rules:

<Steps>

1. Sum all the voting power of delegates that voted `Yay`, call this sum `SumYay`
2. Sum all the voting power of delegates that voted `Nay`, call this sum `SumNay`
3. For any delegate that voted `Yay`, subtract the voting power of any delegator that voted `Nay` from `SumYay`
4. For any delegate that voted `Nay`, subtract the voting power of any delegator that voted `Yay` from `SumNay`
5. Add voting power for any delegation that voted `Yay` (whose corresponding delegate didn't vote `Yay`) to `SumYay`
6. Add voting power for any delegation that voted `Nay` (whose corresponding delegate didn't vote `Nay`) to `SumNay`
7. If the sum `SumYay` is greater than or equal to the sum `SumNay`, **AND** `SumYay` divided by the total `bonded-stake` is greater or equal to the threshold set by `ProposalType`, the proposal outcome is positive, otherwise negative

</Steps>

All the computation will be done on data collected at the epoch specified in the `voting-end` field of the proposal.

> It is possible to check the actual implementation [here](https://github.com/anoma/namada/blob/main/shared/src/ledger/governance/utils.rs#L68).

Author: ```suggestion
```
